# KWP1281 on Address 0x3F

## Introduction

After losing power, the Premium 5 will lock into SAFE mode.  When power is restored, the Premium 5 will attempt to automatically unlock by detecting if it is still installed in the same car.  To do this, the radio initiates a KWP1281 connection to the instrument cluster on address 0x3F (yes, the radio itself acts as a scan tool!).

If the cluster connects and answers a challenge/response successfully, the radio will assume it is still installed in "its car" and will unlock.  If cluster is not present or the challenge/response is unsuccessful, the Premium 5 will not unlock.  It will have to be unlocked by entering the SAFE code on the faceplate.

## Connection Flow

 - Radio transmits 5 baud init to address 0x3F.
 - Instrument cluster answers at 10400 baud with the 0x55 sync byte and the two KWP1281 keyword bytes.  The cluster must always use 10400 baud because the radio hardcodes it.
 - Radio sends the complement of the second keyword byte.
 - Cluster sends a title 0x09 ACK block.  The cluster does not send any 0xF6 identification blocks as a typical KWP1281 connection would.
 - Radio sends a title 0xD7 challenge block with a 4 byte payload.
 - Cluster sends a title 0x3D response block with a 4 byte payload answering the challenge.
 - Radio sends a title 0x06 disconnect block.

## Challenge/Response Algorithm

0xD7 Security Access Request (Radio -> Cluster)

```
  0x07  Block Length
   xx   Block Counter
  0xD7  Block Title (0xD7 = Security Access Request)
   xx   Challenge Payload Byte 0
   xx   Challenge Payload Byte 1
   xx   Challenge Payload Byte 2
   xx   Challenge Payload Byte 3
  0x03  Block End
```

0x3D Security Access Response (Cluster -> Radio)

```
  0x07  Block Length
   xx   Block Counter
  0x3D  Block Title (0x3D = Security Access Response)
   xx   Response Payload Byte 0
   xx   Response Payload Byte 1
   xx   Response Payload Byte 2
   xx   Response Payload Byte 3
  0x03  Block End
```

The algorithm has not yet been reverse engineered.

## Notes

See the `kwp_3f_handlers` table (address 0xb2f6) in the "SOFTWARE 23" firmware.

I have not observed the radio communicating with the cluster on the wire yet.  I
did wire up a cluster in isolation on a bench, connected to it on address 0x3F,
and sent some 0xD7 blocks to it.
