# KWP1281 on Address 0x56

## Identification

```text
    RECV: 0F 01 F6 31 4A 30 30 33 35 31 38 30 42 20 20 03   '1J0035180B  '
    RECV: 0F 03 F6 20 52 61 64 69 6F 20 44 45 32 20 20 03   ' Radio DE2  '
    RECV: 0E 05 F6 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 30 30 30 31 03      '       0001'
    RECV: 08 07 F6 00 03 21 86 9F 03
```

## 0x2B Login

Login with the SAFE code, in binary, as the first two bytes.  The other three bytes can be obtained from the 0xF6 blocks sent during the initial connection.  The third byte is FERN (antenna power) and the last two bytes are the workshop code.  These three bytes don't seem to matter; login will work as long as the SAFE code is correct.

## 0x29 Group Reading

After successful login, the protected commands will not be available until you read a hidden group 0x19.  Reading group 0x19 will respond with NAK, but it's a lie, treat it like ACK.

## 0x01 Read RAM (Protected)

Allows reading the entire address space of the uPD78F0831Y microcontroller (0-0xFFFF).  This includes both ROM and RAM.  However, there's a bug if address 0xEFFF is read (see below).

Memory map:

| Address         | Contents                      |
|-----------------|-------------------------------|
| 0x0000-0xEFFF   | Flash ROM (60K)               |
| 0xF000-0xF7FF   | Internal expansion RAM (2K)   |
| 0xF800-0xFAFF   | Reserved                      |
| 0xFB00-0xFEFF   | Internal high-speed RAM (1K)  |
| 0xFF00-0xFFFF   | Special function registers    |

Premium 5 has some kind of bug reading 0xEFFF.  You can read 0-0xEFFE without hitting the bug.  If the read includes 0xEFFF, then 0xEFFD-0xEFFF will be corrupted.

```text
kwp_read_ram(0xeff0, 16);
//=> RAM: EFF0: BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF FC FB 06     (bug)
kwp_read_ram(0xeff0, 15);
//=> RAM: EFF0: BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF BF 1B        (good)
kwp_read_ram(0xeffd, 1);
//=> RAM: EFFD: BF                                                  (good)
kwp_read_ram(0xeffe, 1);
//=> RAM: EFFE: 1B                                                  (good)
kwp_read_ram(0xefff, 1);
//=> NAK                                                            (bug)
```

The NAK above is caused by sub_2cdf in SOFTWARE23.  That subroutine checks if a region of memory is valid to be read.  It only returns valid for 0x0000 - 0xEFFE when the start address is 0xEFFF.

The last two bytes of the ROM (0xEFFE-0xEFFF) are the checksum.  There is a manufacturing command on address 0x7C that calculates and returns the checksum.  To dump the whole ROM, use Read RAM to read 0-0xEFFE.  This gives the entire ROM except for one byte of the checksum at 0xEFFF.  Use the checksum command to get the missing checksum byte, or calculate the checksum yourself.

## 0x03 Read ROM (Protected)

Returns the contents of the 24C04 EEPROM.

Only allows reading 0-0x01FF but this is the entire EEPROM (512 bytes).

Addresses 0x0014-0x0015 are filtered and always returned as 0.  These two
bytes contain the SAFE code.

## 0x19 Read EEPROM (Protected)

Block title 0x19 is not supported by the firmware.  Premium 5 uses block
title 0x03 to read the 24C04 EEPROM instead.

## 0x0C Write EEPROM (Protected)

TODO description
